Player Report: Maximizing RBIs for David Ortiz

	As you know, where you bat in the order matters.  "Conventional wisdom" suggests that hitting near the top of the lineup signals that you are an integral part of the lineup and that your manager respects your hitting abilities; hitting near the bottom of the lineup is a sign that you may soon be riding the bench.  Perhaps you have it in your head that you are a powerful cleanup hitter and thus must always bat fourth.  Perhaps your identity as a top-of-the-order speedster makes you demand to bat first in the order.  

	However, if your goal is to win the Triple Crown, that is finish with the (1) highest batting average, (2) number of home runs, and (3) number of RBIs in the league, then you should pick a batting lineup position that maximizes your RBI count (average and home runs is decided by your skill level alone unfortunately, so no amount of batting position tweaks can help you in that cause).  This elusive title is only reached about once every two decades-- why not maximize your chances?

	Perhaps your ambitions are not to win the Triple Crown.  But, if you are looking to make the most money in your baseball career, your preferences for batting order position should be simple; simply put, you should want to bat in the position that nets you the highest number of RBIs as well!  RBIs (if someone other than a baseball aficionado is reading this report) is the number of runs batted in for a given hitter; that is, the number of runs that scored directly as a result of your at bats.  The only way to guarantee an RBI is to hit a homerun and thus score yourself-- otherwise, RBIs depend entirely on the actions of the players who hit before you.  In other words, RBIs are almost entirely dependent on your position in the lineup!  Research has shown time and time again that RBI production correlates strongly with salary earnings-- a study done by the University of Arizona showed that salary and RBI production correlated with an r value of +.737.  Although admittedly correlation does not imply causation, since we can severely alter the number of RBIs a player produces in a season by simply changing your spot in the batting order, it does not hurt to try and maximize this statistic--at best, a (perhaps fool-hardy) general manager will pay you a few million dollars more per year due to your inflated RBI total.

	Thus, this report's goal will be to pick the batting position in the lineup (1-9) that yields on average the most RBIs in our simulations given your talent level based on previous historical batting data.

	To calculate the best batting position for you given the eight players that will be batting with you, this report will use a Monte Carlo simulation to run through full 162-game seasons of baseball using a baseball simulation engine. Since managers often will swap around player batting orders during a season, we will generate random assortments of lineups for each batting position we place you in-- then we will calculate the average number of RBIs you produce each season you bat in that position of the lineup.  

	The following includes the results from 16200 Monte Carlo simulations.

	Best:      1, Average RBIs: 204.123
	Excellent: 2, Average RBIs: 200.959
	Great:     3, Average RBIs: 197.906
	Good:      4, Average RBIs: 179.911
	Passable:  5, Average RBIs: 162.590
	Poor:      6, Average RBIs: 150.724
	Bad:       7, Average RBIs: 145.437
	Horrible:  8, Average RBIs: 143.517
	Worst:     9, Average RBIs: 140.368

	Thus, ask (i.e. demand!) your manager to bat in the 1st spot in the lineup for maximal RBI production next season.  Whether your goals are to maximize your chance for the Triple Crown or simply maximize the money you earn on your next contract, this is an easy way to ensure that you are not being cheated by your lineup position!

	A final caveat: it is important to note that, due to the high variance of the sport of baseball and the nature of Monte Carlo simulations, subsequent reports generated by our baseball engine may produce slightly different results.  It is important to run an adequately high number of simulations (we suggest >1000 total different seasons) for a more complete report.


	Sincerely,

	Kevin Jiang, Automated Decision Systems "Expert"
